We request that publications derived from the use of MATPOWER, or the
included data files, explicitly acknowledge that fact by citing the
appropriate paper(s) and the software itself.

### Papers

All publications derived from the use of MATPOWER, or the included data
files, should cite the 2011 MATPOWER paper:

  R. D. Zimmerman, C. E. Murillo-Sanchez, and R. J. Thomas, "MATPOWER:
  Steady-State Operations, Planning and Analysis Tools for Power Systems
  Research and Education," Power Systems, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 26,
  no. 1, pp. 12-19, Feb. 2011.
  doi: 10.1109/TPWRS.2010.2051168

Publications derived from the use of the MATPOWER Optimal Scheduling
Tool (MOST) should cite the 2013 MOST paper, in addition to the 2011
MATPOWER paper above.

  C. E. Murillo-Sanchez, R. D. Zimmerman, C. L. Anderson, and R. J. Thomas,
  "Secure Planning and Operations of Systems with Stochastic Sources,
  Energy Storage and Active Demand," Smart Grid, IEEE Transactions on,
  vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 2220-2229, Dec. 2013.
  doi: 10.1109/TSG.2013.2281001

Work making specific reference to the MATPOWER Interior Point Solver
(MIPS) should also cite:

  H. Wang, C. E. Murillo-SÃ¡nchez, R. D. Zimmerman, R. J. Thomas, "On
  Computational Issues of Market-Based Optimal Power Flow," Power Systems,
  IEEE Transactions on, vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 1185-1193, Aug. 2007.
  doi: 10.1109/TPWRS.2007.901301

NOTE: Some of the case files included with MATPOWER request the citation
of additional publications. This includes the ACTIVSg, PEGASE, and RTE
cases. Details are available in the help text at the top of the
corresponding case files.

### Software

For the sake of reproducibility of research results, it is best to cite
the specific version of the software used with the version-specfic DOI.
For example, for version 8.1 of MATPOWER, use:

  R. D. Zimmerman, C. E. Murillo-Sanchez (2025). MATPOWER (Version 8.1)
  [Software]. Available: https://matpower.org
  doi: 10.5281/zenodo.15871662

To cite the MATPOWER software generally, without reference to a specific
version, use the following citation and DOI, with <YEAR> replaced by the
year of the most recent release:

  R. D. Zimmerman, C. E. Murillo-Sanchez (<YEAR>). MATPOWER
  [Software]. Available: https://matpower.org
  doi: 10.5281/zenodo.3236535

A list of versions with release dates and version-specific DOI's can be
found via the general DOI at https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3236535.

### User's Manuals

The MATPOWER, MIPS and MOST User's Manuals should also be cited
explicitly in work that refers to or is derived from their content. As
with the software, the citation and DOI can be version-specific or
general, as appropriate. For version 8.1 of the MATPOWER User's Manual,
use:

  R. D. Zimmerman, C. E. Murillo-Sanchez. MATPOWER User's Manual,
  Version 8.1. 2025. [Online].
  Available: https://matpower.org/docs/MATPOWER-manual-8.1.pdf
  doi: 10.5281/zenodo.15871661

For a version non-specific citation, use the following citation and DOI,
with <YEAR> replaced by the year of the most recent release:

  R. D. Zimmerman, C. E. Murillo-Sanchez. MATPOWER User's Manual. <YEAR>.
  [Online]. Available: https://matpower.org/docs/MATPOWER-manual.pdf
  doi: 10.5281/zenodo.3236519

A list of versions of the User's Manual with release dates and
version-specific DOI's can be found via the general DOI at
https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3236519.

For information on citing the MIPS or MOST User's Manuals, please see
the 'mips/CITATION' and 'most/CITATION' files, respectively.

### Recommendation

In the interest of facilitating research reproducibility and thereby
increasing the value of your MATPOWER-related research publications, we
strongly encourage you to also publish, whenever possible, all of the
code and data required to generate the results you are publishing.
Zenodo/GitHub and IEEE DataPort are two of many available options.
